6bone

Testbed IPv6 network formed from multiple sites and tunnels. The 6bone
has been deprecated by RFC 3701 and will be non functional as of June
2006.

ACL

Access Control List, concept of restricting access to a resource by
forming a list of accpeted and/or rejected clients.

anycast

A networking delivery method which allows a any node in a group of 
machines to answer a request. Sometimes used in load balancing 
scenarios.

API

Application Programming Interface, a programming library with
standardised set of data structures, function calls and methods used to
simply programming.

ARP

Address Resolution Protocol, used in IPv4 TCP/IP stacks to translate 
between IP and Layer 2 address (eg Ethernet MAC addresses).

bit

The method of expressing data on most computers. It is a number in base
2, giving only two possible values, 0 and 1. Bits are combined togather
and operated on to perform almost all computer operations.

BGP

Border Gateway Protocol, a popular EGP protocol.  

broadcast

A network delivery method which delivers the same data to all nodes.

CIDR

Classless Inter Domain Routing, A method of allocating IPv4 IP addresses
without using the original Class A, B and C system.

DAD

Duplicate Address Detection, a feature of IPv6 to allow nodes to check
that an address isn't already used.

deprecate

TODO

DNS

Domain Name System, a distributed database used to store information
such as FQDNs and IP addresses, mail servers, telephone numbers, etc

dual stack

term used to describe a node with IPv4 and IPv6 TCP/IP networking stacks
enabled. Currently common during the rollout of IPv6 to allow
compatability between IPv4 and IPv6 networks.

EGP

Exterior Gateway Protocol, a routing protocol used to populate routing
tables between different, often adjacent networks. Compare to IGP.

FQDN

Fully Qualified Domain Name, the full name of a node, consisting of a
name of the node, followed by a domain name or sub domain name suffix.

ICMP

Internet Control Message Protocol, the control protocol used to
communicate error and diagnostic messages. ICMP was revised and expanded 
during the design of ICMPv6, included within IPv6.

IGP

Interior Gateway Protocol, a protocol class used within a network to
learn and update routing tables within that network. Compare to EGP.

IPsec

technique used to secure network connections at Layer 3, ensuring
privacy, authentication and other security related services. 

IPv4

Internet Protocol, version 4. The IP protocol used in the internet
at the time of writing.

IPv6

A new version of the IP protocol, with significant design improvements
to address issues in IPv4.

Node

An individual computer, connected to a single network or subnet.

Machine

See node

MLD

Multicast Listener Discovery, a part of ICMPv6 which allows an IPv6
router to discover multicast addresses being listened to for a link.

Multicast

A way of sending packets to a certain group of machine. Duplication of
packet contents is down within the network.

Multihoming

a network with multiple upstream connections, commonly using different
upstream provides. Commonly found in ISP networks and significant
locations such as server farms and co-location data centres.

NAT

Network Address Translation, as described in RFC 1631 is a method
to rewrite IP source and destination between 2 networks. It is often
used to mask private IP ranges, as described in RFC 1918 behind a 
public, routable IPv4 address. 

ND

Neighbour Discovery, the new and improved equivalent of ARP for IPv6.

OSI

Open System Interconnection, a networking stack once the alternative to
TCP/IP. Known primarily now for the layered paradigm central to it's
design.

PIM

Protocol Independent Multicast, a prptocol for routing multicast
traffic. There are two versions, Sparse Mode and Dense Mode, referring
to the density of nodes subnets in multicast enabled subnets.

prefix

A block or IPv4 or IPv6 addresses determined by fixing the first x bits
of an address. Eg 134.226.0.0/16 is the prefix for the network
containing IPv4 address 134.226.81.11. 2001:770:10:300::/64 is an IPv6
prefix containing the address 2001:770:10:300::86e2:510b. 

QoS

Quality of Service, the ability of gaurantee dedicated bandwidth to
specific traffic in an effort to reduce the risk delayed delivery a for
time sensitive payload.

RFC

Request For Comments, the nearest equivalent to complete standards that
govern the Internet and the protocols available.

SMTP

Simple Mail Transfer Protocol, the protocl used to transmit email
between nodes on a network, or the Internet.

tunnel

technique of sending packets of a particular protocol from one point on
a network to another without the intermediate network understanding the
tunneled payload. Commonly achieved by wrapping payload packets within
headers and tails understood by the intermediate network. This
technique is commonly used to provide upstream IPv6 connectivity to IPv6
islands without native IPv6 upstreams.

tunnelbroker

A dual stacked node used as a router to provide IPv6 connectivity to a
tunnel.

Unicast

Primary networking method used to create IP connections between nodes.
Compare with anycast, multicast and broadcast.

Userland

Tools and applications installed on an O/S outside of the kernel and
core subsystems. Typically refers to all tools available to a user of
the system.
