% $Id: 20041109.tex 367 2004-11-23 10:22:38Z conall $

\documentclass[a4paper,12pt]{article}

\usepackage{graphicx}

\setlength{\parindent}{0mm}
\setlength{\parskip}{7.5mm}

\begin{document}

\title{Course 3BA3: Comunications \\ \vspace{10mm} Assignment 2 \\
\vspace{10mm} Is Mobile Communication the Future? \\ \vspace{10mm}
{\small Do you think the proliferation of mobile voice and data communication
technologies (Cellular Mobile Phones, WiFi, WiMax, Bluetooth, GPRS, etc)
coupled with Voice over IP (VoIP) technologies (Skype, etc) will make
traditional fixed telephony a thing of the past?}}

\author{Conall O'Brien \\ conallob@maths.tcd.ie \\ 01734351}

\maketitle

\section{Introduction}

In this paper, I will briefly outline the details of existing
technologies used by the telecommunications industry, for both
telephonic communications and in their most recent roles as internet
service providers.


I will also discuss the various wireless technologies and
\footnote{Voice over \footnote{Internet Protocol}{IP}}{VoIP} which are
gaining increased deployment and interest, particularly from the
telecommunication industry.

\part{Traditional Technologies}

\section{The Telecommunications Industry}

Over the years, telephone networks around the world converged together
to form the \footnote{Public Switched Telephone Network}{PSTN} as it
effectivly exists today. \cite[In the 1970s]{wikipedia-pstn}, the 
telecommunications industry begun researching replacing analogue
technologies with high capacity digital alternative, giving birth to
technologies such as 
\cite[\footnote{Digital Line Subscriber}{DSL} and 
\footnote{Integrated Systems Digital Network}{ISDN}]{wikipedia-pstn}.


The telecoms industry are always interesting in more efficient, highly
scalable systems to cater for the magnitude of the PSTN, while keeping
or improving \footnote{Quality of Service}{QoS} and throughput.

\subsection{Internet Service Providers (ISPs)}

Over the last 20 years, since the emergance of the Internet, the
telecoms industry have become \footnote{Internet Service
Providers}{ISPs}, providing \footnote{Internet Protocol}{IP}
connectivity over various mediums, such as copper transmission lines
(ordinary phone lines), ISDN,  

\part{Emerging Technologies}

\section{Wireless Technologies}

\subsection{Protocols}

\subsection{Security Concerns}

\section{VoIP Technologies}

\subsection{Competing Protocols}

\subsection{Proliferation}

\section{Convergencing the Technologies}

\subsection{Mobile Telecommunications}

\subsection{Enhancing the Private Branck eXchange (PBX) Model}

\part{Conclusions}

\bibliographystyle{ieeetr}

\bibliography{WiFi-VoIP-Essay}

\end{document}
